In this section we compare various aspects of self-attention layers to the recurrent and convolutional layers commonly used for mapping one variable-length sequence of symbol representations
(x1, ..., xn) to another sequence of equal length (z1, ..., zn), with xi
, zi ∈ R
d
, such as a hidden
layer in a typical sequence transduction encoder or decoder. Motivating our use of self-attention we
consider three desiderata.
One is the total computational complexity per layer. Another is the amount of computation that can
be parallelized, as measured by the minimum number of sequential operations required.
The third is the path length between long-range dependencies in the network. Learning long-range
dependencies is a key challenge in many sequence transduction tasks. One key factor affecting the
ability to learn such dependencies is the length of the paths forward and backward signals have to
traverse in the network. The shorter these paths between any combination of positions in the input
and output sequences, the easier it is to learn long-range dependencies [12]. Hence we also compare
the maximum path length between any two input and output positions in networks composed of the
different layer types.
As noted in Table 1, a self-attention layer connects all positions with a constant number of sequentially
executed operations, whereas a recurrent layer requires O(n) sequential operations. In terms of
computational complexity, self-attention layers are faster than recurrent layers when the sequence
6
length n is smaller than the representation dimensionality d, which is most often the case with
sentence representations used by state-of-the-art models in machine translations, such as word-piece
[38] and byte-pair [31] representations. To improve computational performance for tasks involving
very long sequences, self-attention could be restricted to considering only a neighborhood of size r in
the input sequence centered around the respective output position. This would increase the maximum
path length to O(n/r). We plan to investigate this approach further in future work.
A single convolutional layer with kernel width k < n does not connect all pairs of input and output
positions. Doing so requires a stack of O(n/k) convolutional layers in the case of contiguous kernels,
or O(logk(n)) in the case of dilated convolutions [18], increasing the length of the longest paths
between any two positions in the network. Convolutional layers are generally more expensive than
recurrent layers, by a factor of k. Separable convolutions [6], however, decrease the complexity
considerably, to O(k · n · d + n · d
2
). Even with k = n, however, the complexity of a separable
convolution is equal to the combination of a self-attention layer and a point-wise feed-forward layer,
the approach we take in our model.
As side benefit, self-attention could yield more interpretable models. We inspect attention distributions
from our models and present and discuss examples in the appendix. Not only do individual attention
heads clearly learn to perform different tasks, many appear to exhibit behavior related to the syntactic
and semantic structure of the sentences.
