Betelgeuse, also designated Alpha Orionis, is a massive M-type red supergiant star nearing the end of its life. It is the second 
brightest star in Orion, and is a semiregular variable star.[7] It serves as the "right shoulder" of the hunter (assuming that he is facing the observer).
It is generally the eleventh brightest star in the night sky, but this has varied between being the tenth brightest to the 23rd brightest by the end of 2019.[8][9] The end of its life is expected to 
result in a supernova explosion that will be highly visible from Earth, possibly outshining the Moon and being visible during the day. This is most likely to occur within the next 100,000 years.[10]

Rigel, also known as Beta Orionis, is a B-type blue supergiant that is the seventh brightest star in the night sky. Similar to Betelgeuse,
Rigel is fusing heavy elements in its core and will pass its supergiant stage soon (on an astronomical timescale), either collapsing in the case of a supernova or shedding its outer layers and turning
into a white dwarf. It serves as the left foot of the hunter.[11]

Bellatrix is designated Gamma Orionis by Johann Bayer. It is the seventh brightest star in the night sky. Bellatrix is considered a B-type blue giant, though it is too small to explode 
in a supernova. Bellatrix's luminosity is derived from its high temperature rather than a large radius.[12] Bellatrix marks Orion's left shoulder and it means the "female warrior", and is sometimes
known colloquially as the "Amazon Star".[13] It is the closest major star in Orion at only 244.6 light years from the Solar System.

Mintaka is designated Delta Orionis, despite being the faintest of the three stars in Orion's Belt. Its name means "the belt". It is a multiple star system,
composed of a large B-type blue giant and a more massive O-type main-sequence star. The Mintaka system constitutes an eclipsing binary variable star, where 
the eclipse of one star over the other creates a dip in brightness. Mintaka is the westernmost of the three stars of Orion's Belt, as well as the northernmost.[6]

Alnilam is designated Epsilon Orionis and is named for the Arabic phrase meaning "string of pearls".[6] It is the middle and brightest of 
the three stars of Orion's Belt. Alnilam is a B-type blue 
supergiant; despite being nearly twice as far from the Sun as the other two belt stars, its luminosity makes it nearly equal in magnitude. Alnilam is losing 
mass quickly, a consequence of its size. It is the farthest major star in Orion at 1,344 light years.

Alnitak, meaning "the girdle", is designated Zeta Orionis, and is the easternmost star in Orion's Belt. It is a triple star system, with the primary star being
a hot blue supergiant and the brightest class O star in the night sky.

Saiph is designated Kappa Orionis by Bayer, and serves as Orion's right foot. It is of a similar distance and size to Rigel, but appears much fainter. It means the "sword of the giant"

Meissa is designated Lambda Orionis, forms Orion's head, and is a multiple star with a combined apparent magnitude of 3.33. Its name means the "shining one".
